Content Marketing Done Right: Trends and Best Practices Report, 2019

Content marketing continues to have a very impactful influence on the decision to purchase a company’s product or services. Marketers are increasingly using content marketing tactics, along with technology, to better engage with their buyers to educate, update, and guide them.
To understand the buzz around the growing popularity of Content Marketing we at Research NXT will be conducting in-depth market research to compile key data points to learn the current state of Content marketing in India. Also, the study will focus on understanding the top content marketing tools in the market and where are the marketers investing for the desired revenue growth.

Expert’s View

Content Marketing at India’s Leading Asset Management Company



Gaurav Suri is a curious and passionate Sales and Marketing professional having straddled across industries. He is currently the Sr Executive Vice President and Head of Marketing at UTI mutual funds, and working at the intersection of data, technology and consumer insights. Gaurav is also a part of the industry initiative by AMFI and member of financial literacy committee developing communication for Mutual Fund Sahi Hai campaign.
In this conversation, Gaurav talks about how Content Marketing has evolved as a vital part of the marketing mix and complements the overall marketing strategy. He also explains the best practices of Content distribution which he has implemented at UTI mutual funds.
How to Use Technology for an Effective Content Marketing Strategy

Amit Kapoor currently is the Associate Director, Content Marketing at Cigniti Technologies. Amit is responsible for the end-to-end design, development, and implementation of the Content Marketing activities of Cigniti. He is responsible for continuously developing global content marketing strategies for NA, UK, and APAC regions, and overseeing all marketing & content initiatives, both internal and external, across multiple platforms and formats.
Amit has been recognized as LinkedIn Content50-2018 and India’s Top 100 Content/Brand Custodian-2017 by Paul Writer, the Global Top 200 Content Strategist-2017 by Mind Touch, & the Most Influential Content Marketing Professional by the World Marketing Congress (2017, 2018). In this conversation Amit talks about how Content Marketing as a function has evolved over the years at Cigniti Technologies.

7 Must-have Features for Content Marketing System

While implementing a content marketing strategy, it does not matter if you are getting started or an established player. Your website is vital for the plan. Creating good content takes more time than it is. So, you should have a time-saving process at your end to get it distributed and published. This is when the Content Management System (CMS) comes in!
A CMS can help you to get your content to publish, distribute wild and optimize your conversions. Content marketing is more than just blogs. It can be your website which can be a hub for whitepapers, eBooks, case studies, videos, etc. The content management systems continue to evolve, and with that, the expectations from the CMS is increasing. We could see the continued development of the features marketers are demanding. For your strategy to be robust, full-proved, efficient, your CMS should have cutting-edge features to make your content marketing strategy a great success.
Below are the top features that a CMS should have to help you reach your goals:
1) Content Creation: Good and engaging content is a result of strategic thinking and understanding of business. A CMS can help you get your content pieces to move in harmony. Stages to enable approvals, allows different users to roll out their inputs in a structured manner, keeping it scheduled to hold your team one step ahead.
2) Email Marketing: Email Marketing is so far the best method to reach customers and for campaigns to scale their marketing efforts. A CMS should have email features like- Personalised emails, triggered emails, group emails, scheduled messages, and recording customer behavior.
3 Content Support: A CMS could support your content strategy by providing a flexible platform and allowing a variety of contents. We know that digital media is here and is here for the long run, and blogs are not the only type. This means there should be a clear way to manage content regardless of its kind. Videos are engaging and no doubt in the future, videos will make up to 80% of online traffic.
4) SEO tools: A content marketer should be an SEO expert. The traffic that SEO can bring in is low cost, faster at lead conversions and takes less effort and time. And while SEO factors have a variable impact — it’s not like they’re all equally weighted — it’s important to hit as many as possible to secure the best organic ranking you can. A CMS can help you hear. Built-in SEO can help you with targeted keywords while you create your content, keyword density calculations, automated XML sitemap submissions.
5) Integrated Sharing: Content production is only halfway through a content marketing strategy. The other half is the distribution of your content. A CMS could help you to expand your content to a wider audience if there are integrated platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Soundcloud, etc. You can make your audience share your content through social media including Tweet options, share on Facebook. Also, you can get your content to appear on social media with least of efforts and time.
6) Accessibility, Analytics, and Tracking: On publishing your content through social media, videos, blogs, newsletters and many other channels it is most likely you slip-on ease of accessibility. CMS centralizes all your content activity in one place and gives you compliance for your new content.
A CMS should have a Tracking and Analytics feature. Because if you can’t track the effectiveness of your content marketing strategy, then there is no point in pouring content. You should know what is working and what’s not.
What content attracts the audience? What content keeps the audience engaged? How much time your audience spending on content? A CMS should analyse all these questions and give you a report to track the effectiveness of your content strategy.
7) Ease to capture Leads: The objective of your Content Management strategy is to drive sales in the most cost-effective method. Hence, your CMS should capture the Leads in the easiest ways. An efficient CMS should have integration to some of the major platforms at your end like Customer Relationship Management (CRM). The integration capabilities should be simple and require minimal staff training. API access to integrate with existing tools, third-party applications is a plus.
Research NXT is an innovative market research company covering in-depth research and insights on trending Enterprise Technology.
Having carried out assignments for a diverse clientele on domains like MarTECH (Marketing Technology), IoT (Internet of Things), E-Learning Manufacturing, Automation, Engineering, Nuclear Power, IT & ITES, to list a few; our team has extensive market research experience of various industries. Though these assignments have been targeted towards multiple territories the world over (APAC, EMEA, USA); Our market research capabilities set us apart from the rest of the crowd.
To get a free copy of the Report: Content Marketing Done Right: Trends and Best Practices Report, 2019 and a chance to win Amazon Echo Dot participate in the survey to share your insights.
